

    1) What is the Mean Stack?
      Mean stack is combination of four popular JavaScript-based technologies MongoDB, Express, AngularJS and Node that allows developers to develop complete web applications.


    2) What is Express?
      Express is lightweight web framework for Node.js.It provides robust and scalable solutions to build single and multi-page web application. Express is inspired by Sinatra (Ruby framework).

    3) Explain Mongoose?
      Mongoose is a MongoDB Object Data Modeling (ODM) library for MongoDB and NodeJS.It provides a straight-forward, schema-based solution to model your application data. It includes built-in typecasting, validation, query building, business logic hooks and more, out of the box.


    4) How AngularJS is different from NodeJS.
    The purpose of Angular and Node Js is totally Different.
    AngularJS is front-end framework that deals with UI and client side of an application while NodeJs is a runtime environment useful in building server-side applications.

    7) What are the features of Node.js?
    Node.js is a platform built on Chrome's JavaScript runtime for easily building fast and scalable network applications. Node.js uses an event-driven, non-blocking I/O model that makes it lightweight and efficient, perfect for data-intensive real-time applications that run across distributed devices.

    Node.js is an open source, cross-platform runtime environment for developing server-side and networking applications.

    Node.js is a single-threaded but highly scalable system that utilizes JavaScript as its scripting language. It uses asynchronous, event-driven I/O instead of separate processes or threads. It is able to achieve high output via single-threaded event loop and non-blocking I/O.

  8)what is middleware in NodeJs
   Middleware functions are functions that have access to the request object ( req ), the response object ( res ), and the next function in the application's request-response cycle. The next function is a function in the Express router which, when invoked, executes the middleware succeeding the current middleware.

 10)Socket I/O
  Socket.IO is a JavaScript library for realtime web applications. It enables realtime, bi-directional communication between web clients and servers. It has two parts: a client-side library that runs in the browser, and a server-side library for Node.js. Both components have a nearly identical API

